Tutorial Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k5E2AVpwsko 

What is angular? A.) A Framework for building client applications in HTML CSS and javascript/typescript

Angular gives our application a clean structure with utility code you can use in other apps 

This makes the app much easier to typescript

You don't need it...but it helps!

1.2 Architecture
* Front-end - User interacts with it; HTML CSS, Typescript, Angular

*Back-end - Responsible for data

Front-end works with backend to display data. YOU DON'T SAVE DATA WITH ANGULAR 

1.3 Setting up Environment

You need node.js; it's a runtime enviornment for executing javascript code outside the browser
Needed to build angular projects,(at least version 6.9),
I installed it with browser

We'll use node to install 3rd party libraries:
Angular CLI
npm install -g @angular/cli
ng version gives you the version

To create new project, type:
ng new hello-world

To run that as a server, type:
ng serve

1.4 Looking at the files
Inside the project folder, we have stuff...

'node_moduels' contains all the 3rd party apps we depend on. These are put in a bundle and added to our 
application

'src' is the code for our application

'assets' contain static stuff for our app

'envioronments' contains different settings for our environment. You start out with one for prod and another for development

main.ts is the 'start' of our program

poylfills.ts is used for loading certain features of angulur

test.ts is used for setting up our test enviornment

.editorconfig is for developers

package.json - Used for libraries and other stuff our application is dependent on. Dev dependencies are used just 
for a dev machine

tsconfig.json is used to configure typescript. Might need to be changed for complex projects

1.5 Messing with Stuff
Make sure you SAVE after you change a file. We changed the title in app.components.ts
During the runtime, all the stylesheets are compiled into a bundle

1.6 Difference between Angular

AngularJS in 2010 was the start...very complex.
In 2016, Angular 2 was made with Typescript
A lot of developers got made cuz they had to re-write their apps
Angular 4 is basically Angular 2.4....
to avoid confusion, it's just Angular

So, the example with w3 examples is AngularJS...the old version that's gunna die soon 
and the one everyone uses is just called Angular

1.7 Typescript

Typescript is a superset of Javascript...it has additional features of Javascript.

-"Strong Typing", like declaring what type of variable you're making 
- Has OOP
- Catch errors at Compile time,(not all)
- Great tooling

A lot of browsers don't like typescript...so we have to transcribe it to Javascript

1.8 Installing typescript
npm install -g typescript
To see if it downloaded: tsc --version

To compile to Javascript:
-- tsc main.ts
it makes a main.js

1.9 Working with Typescript

So really, you can make shitty code in Typescript, but still have it compile to valid code in JS...
honestly, why use Typescript?

1.10 Module Example

Each file is like a module.

Angular Modules are a little different than typescript Modules

1.11 BUilding blocks of Angular apps

* Components - Data, HTML Template, and logic for a view.
For example, say you have a component JUST for the header, where Users can click links and stuff.
Or a component for leaving a review on an item displayed,(which might also be a component)

An app is just a 'root component' that all other components stem from 

As our app grows, we may need to develop more and more Modules

1.12 Making a component
* NOTE: see these changes in the 'hello-world' section. Remember it's 
'ng serve' to run it
1. Create component - In the 'app' folder of our Angular proejct, added 'courses.component.ts'. WIth components,
we can extend HTML library.
2. Register it in a module - Added the module in courses.component.ts and app.module.ts
3. Add an element in an HTML Markup - Assigned that module to an h2 tag

For other notes, check out the files under the 'app' folder

1.13 Generating Components using Angular CLI 

Now that's the OLD TEDIOUS WAY of doing it. You can be faster using Angular CLI

For instance, if you remove something from one of the files on accident, you break the app

Syntax:
ng g c course
g= genearate, c=component then the name of the component

This creates the neccessary files,(and a new folder under app), to work on this module

1.14 Directives 

on courses.components.ts, under the component section, we use ` because it can make the lines 
more readable by allowing it to go on multiple lines

Directives are used to manipulate the DOM.

Need to prefix anything modifying the DOM with an *, 


1.15 Services

You'd get stuff from the servers and add it in.

Want to declare an HTTP service on it's own...otherwise you need to set it up in ALL components.

You want to declare an HTTP service somwhere and import that in other classes

Added a file under app, (courses.service.ts). Make sure you keep the naming convention like that

1.16 Dependendcy Injection

Look at the app.module.ts and courses compenet files

* Singleton pattern - A single object exists in memory, and that gets passed to all our componenets, based 
on what's put in the Provider field

1.17 Creating services using CLI 
ng g s email
g = genearte s = service then add the name
